Rulebook
i

ii

Credits
WIZARDS OF THE COAST
Game Design: Peter Lee, Rodney Thompson, Andrew Veen
Game Development: Yoni Skolnik (lead), Mons Johnson, Peter Lee
Additional Playtesting: Jeffrey Bates, Bart Carroll, Nik Davidson, Melissa DeTora, Ian Duke, Chris Dupuis, John Feil, Demitrios Feredinos, Ethan Fleischer, Aaron Forsythe, Dan Gelon, Mark Globus, James Hata, Ben Hayes, Dan Helland, Charlie Helman, Graeme Hopkins, Cate Horne, Cory Howell, Dave Humpherys, Kate Irwin, Reid Johnson, Glenn Jones, Trevor Kidd, Scott Larrabee, Adam Lee, Jackie Lee, Chris Lindsay, Shawn Main, Dave Marsee, Bill McQuillan, Mike Mearls, Alli Medwin, Andrew Miotke, Lynwood Montgomery, Shauna Narciso, Tom Olsen, Steve Pelikan, Marc Peterson, Ben Petrisor, Adam Prosak, Jules Robins, Bill Rose, Hilary Ross, Robert Schuster, James Sooy, Ryan Spain, Matt Tabak, Greg Tito, Chris Tulach, Mike Turian, Scott Van Essen, Gavin Verhey, Matt Wolff, James Wyatt, Chris Youngs
Writing: Adam Lee, Ben Petrisor, Matt Sernett
Editing: Bill McQuillan
Design Manager: Chris Youngs
Senior Manager: Mike Mearls
Business Team: Nathan Stewart, Liz Schuh, Greg Bilsland, John Feil, Hilary Ross, Greg Tito, Trevor Kidd, Shauna Narciso, Kate Irwin, Emi Tanji, Shelly Mazzanoble, Chris Dupuis

Artwork: Rob Alexander, Alexey Aparin, Daren Bader, John-Paul Balmet, Eric Belisle, Sam Burley, Carlos Nunez de Castro Torres, Milivoj eran, Conceptopolis, Julie Dillon, Olga Drebas, Jesper Ejsing, Empty Room Studio, Wayne England, Jason Engle, Emily Fiegenschuh, Lars Grant-West, Brian Hagan, Todd Harris, Ilich Henriquez, Ralph Horsley, Tyler Jacobson, Tomasz Jedruszek, Jason Juta, McLean Kendree, Vance Kovacs, Guido Kuip, Howard Lyon, Damien M, Slawomir Maniak, Jake Masbruch, Marcel Mercado, Marco Nelor, Jim Nelson, William O'Connor, Hector Ortiz, Ryan Pancoast, Adam Paquette, Klaus Pillon, Claudio Pozas, Aaron J. Riley, Marc Sasso, Craig J Spearing, Raymond Swanland, Arnie Swekel, Bryan Syme, Matias Tapia, Stephen Tappin, Francis Tsai, Tyler Walpole, Richard Whitters, Eva Widermann, Ben Wootten, Kieran Yanner, James Zhang,
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, WIZARDS OF THE COAST, Tyrants of the Underdark, all other Wizards of the Coast product names, and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. All Wizards characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are property of Wizards of the Coast LLC. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast LLC. This product is a work of fiction. Any similarity to actual people, organizations, places, or events included herein is purely coincidental.
©2016 Wizards of the Coast LLC, PO Box 707, Renton, WA 98057-0707, U.S.A.
Visit our website at DungeonsandDragons.com

GALE FORCE NINE
Creative Director: John-Paul Brisigotti Graphic Design: Sean Goodison Cover Illustration: Steve Ellis Game Board Illustration: Katie Dillon

Table of Contents
Game Overview.................................................................2 How to Win.........................................................................2 Game Components...........................................................2 Setup....................................................................................4 Parts of a Card...................................................................6
Aspects.............................................................................6 Resources...........................................................................7
Power ( ).......................................................................7 Influence ( )..................................................................7 Resource Pool.................................................................7 Sequence of Play...............................................................8 Your Turn.........................................................................8 Gaining VP......................................................................8 Playing Cards.....................................................................9 Special Abilities..............................................................9 Interacting with the Game Map.................................. 10 Presence....................................................................... 10 Troop Spaces............................................................... 10 White Troop Spaces................................................... 10

Sites............................................................................... 10  Control..................................................................... 10  Total Control........................................................... 11  Control Markers.................................................... 11
Routes............................................................................ 11
Actions.............................................................................. 11 Key Terms and Phrases............................................. 11 Assassinate a Troop.................................................... 11 Deploy a Troop............................................................. 12 Devour a Card.............................................................. 12 Move a Troop................................................................ 12 Place a Spy................................................................... 12 Promote a Card........................................................... 13 Recruit a Card.............................................................. 13 Return a Troop or Spy................................................ 13 Supplant a Troop......................................................... 14
Ending the Game........................................................... 14 Final Scoring................................................................ 14
Appendix: Underdark Sites......................................... 15
Quick Reference............................................................. 22

"Station is the paradox of the world of my people, the limitation of our power within the hunger for power. It is gained through treachery and invites treachery against those who gain it. Those most powerful in Menzoberranzan spend their days watching over their shoulders, defending against the daggers that would find their backs. Their deaths usually come from the front."
--Drizzt Do'Urden, in Homeland by R.A. Salvatore

1 Contents

Game Overview
Tyrants of the UnderdarkTM is a competitive strategy game for 2 to 4 players in which you take on the role of the leader of a drow house. As a drow (a dark elf) your goal is ascension to greater power through control of the Underdark.
During the course of the game, you'll build and play your own deck of cards that represent the minions of your house and determine what actions you can take on your turn, such as recruiting new minions or deploying troops to the game map. You'll continually refine your deck, adding new cards while removing others to make your deck more powerful.
How to Win
Earn victory points (VP) by recruiting powerful minions and controlling important locations in the Underdark. The player with the most VP at the end of the game wins.

Game Components
Game board Rulebook Storage tray Pad of scorecards 4 Drow-house playmats 220 Plastic pieces:
160 Player troops (40 for each of 4 colors) 40 White (unaligned) troops 20 Spies (5 for each of 4 colors) 260 Minion cards: 28 Nobles 12 Soldiers 15 House Guards 15 Priestesses of Lolth 30 Insane Outcasts 160 Market cards (four 40-card half-decks) 68 Die-cut pieces: 40 Tokens, 1 VP 16 Tokens, 5 VP 7 Site control markers 4 Inner-circle boards First Player Token

2

Unaligned Troops Player Troops Spies
Inner-Circle Boards

MEN G
l

Drow-House Playmats

M ZAN t

VP Tokens

ZOBERRAN

AUNTLGRY
+

+

o+tal

VP
contro

control

Site Control Markers

FIRST PLAYER

First Player Marker

3 Game Overview

Setup
Before you start playing, set up the game as follows:
1. Place the game board within easy reach of all players. Depending on the number of players, you'll play on the entire game map or only part of it. The board is divided into three sections by a dotted line.
· 2 Players. Don't play on the outer sections; play only on the center section.
· 3 Players. Choose one of the two outer sections; play only on that section and the center section.
· 4 Players. Play on all 3 sections.
2. Choose 2 of the market half-decks (40 cards apiece) and shuffle them together to form the market deck. Put it face down in the marked space on the board.
First Game. For your first game use the Drow and Dragon half-decks.
3. Put the Priestess of Lolth and House Guard cards face up in their marked spaces on the board.
4. If you're playing with the Demons half-deck, put the Insane Outcast cards face up in their marked space.

5. Put the top 6 cards of the market deck face up in the market.
6. Put white (unaligned) troop pieces in all troop spaces marked with a on the portion of the game map you're playing on.
7. Put the site control markers in their marked spaces on the game map with the "total control" side face up.
8. Place the VP tokens in the marked space on the board.
9. Randomly choose who will take the first turn and give that player the first-player marker.
10. Each player does the following:
· Choose a drow house and take the playmat, inner-circle board, and all pieces of that house's color. Place them in front of you.
· Take 7 Noble cards and 3 Soldier cards to create your own starting deck. Shuffle your deck and place it face down in the marked space on your playmat.
· Draw 5 cards from your deck.
11. Starting with the first player, each player deploys a troop in any starting site on the game map not already taken by another player. Starting sites are those with black boxes.

Market Half-Decks
The following market half-decks are included in the Tyrants of the Underdark game:
Drow. The Drow deck features streamlined cards at lower influence costs.
Dragons. The Dragons deck has many high-influence-cost cards, and it features 5 Dragons that will reward you for adhering to a strategy.
Elemental. The Elemental deck includes cards with the Focus ability, which become more powerful if you have many cards of the same aspect.
Demons. The Demons deck features cards that put Insane Outcasts in your opponents' decks, as well as Demons that must devour your own cards in order to be played.

4

Game Setup Example

5 Setup

Parts of a Card 1

2

The cards in your deck represent your minions,

3

4

individual members of your drow house that will do

your bidding.

Each card has the following parts:

1. Name
2. Cost. How much Influence ( ) you must expend to recruit the card.
3. Aspect. Minions represent different aspects of drow society, as shown by their card symbols. See "Aspects," below.
4. Minion Type. What type of creature the minion is.
5. Deck Symbol. Which market half-deck the card belongs to.
6. Rules Text. What the card does when you play it.
7. Story Text. Gives some insight into the minion's story, but has no effect on gameplay.
8. Deck VP Value. How many victory points the card is worth in your deck, hand, or discard pile at the end of the game.
9. Inner-Circle VP Value. How many victory points the card is worth in your inner circle at the end of the game.
10. Rarity. How many times you'll find the card in a half-deck. For example, a card with 2 dots has 2 copies in its half-deck.

6

7

5

10

89

Aspects
Minions represent the following aspects of drow society:
Ambition. Ambition minions are the best at recruiting other minions and creating a strong inner circle.
Conquest. Conquest minions are the best at taking over the Underdark.
Malice. Malice minions are flexible and are the best at assassination.
Guile. Guile minions are the best at spying and disrupting control.
Obedience. Obedience minions get the day-to-day tasks done.

The Story Behind Minion Cards
When you play minion cards, you are assigning those minions to some unspecified missions, represented by the actions and resources they provide. While not an actual part of game play, you could imagine these missions as a variety of tasks and adventures. While minion cards are in your discard pile, those minions are out in the Underdark doing your bidding. When you reshuffle your discard pile into your deck, they are returning from their missions. Then, when you draw them, they have returned to your stronghold and are ready for you to send out on more missions.

6

Resources
The resources in the game are Power ( ) and Influence ( ), which you may expend on your turn to take actions. Power and Influence aren't tracked using game pieces; when you gain them during your turn, you must expend them on that turn or they are lost. You gain Power and Influence primarily from playing your cards.
Power ( )
Power allows you to exert control over the Underdark game map. With Power you can deploy your troops, assassinate enemy troops, and return spies.
Influence ( )
Influence allows you to recruit cards from the game board.
Resource Pool
Whenever you are granted or , it goes in your resource pool, and you can expend it whenever you like during step 1 of your turn. At the end of your turn, any resources in your pool that you didn't expend are lost; you can't carry them over to your next turn.
7 Resources

Sequence of Play
Tyrants of the UnderdarkTM is played in a sequence of rounds. During a round, each player takes a turn starting with the first player. Play continues clockwise until the game ends (see "Ending the Game" on page 14).

Your Turn

During your turn, do the following any number of times and in any order you choose:

1. Play a card from your hand (see "Playing Cards" on page 9).

2. Expend resources from your resource pool to take one of the following basic actions (see "Actions" on page 11)

· Assassinate a troop by expending 3 Power

(

).

· Deploy a troop by expending 1 Power ( ).

· Recruit a card by expending an amount of Influence ( ) equal to that card's cost.

· Return an enemy spy by expending 3 Power

(

).

At the end of your turn, perform the following steps in order:

1. Promote cards to your inner circle if you played any cards this turn that told you to promote at the end of the turn.
2. Gain VP for your site control markers.
3. Discard your played cards and any cards remaining in your hand.
4. Draw up to your hand size of 5 cards. Whenever you need to draw a card but there are none left, shuffle your discard pile to re-form your deck.

Gaining VP
Whenever you're told to gain VP, take unclaimed VP markers equaling that amount and put them in the trophy hall on your playmat.

8

Playing Cards
To play a card, lay it on the table face up in front of you. Follow all the card's instructions in the order they're presented, adding any resources ( and ) the card grants to your resource pool (see "Resource Pool" on page 7).
Whenever a card gives instructions that go against the rules of the game, the card takes precedence.
Special Abilities
Most cards simply grant resources or tell you to take an action described in the "Actions" section on page 11. Abilities that require further explanation are presented here.
Abilities with Costs ().
Whenever an arrow appears in a card's text, it indicates that a cost is required to get an effect. Pay the cost described on the left side of the arrow in order to get the effect described on the right side of the arrow. You may pay the cost only once when you play the card.
Note that unlike following the instructions of other card text, paying the cost of an ability is optional. If you don't pay the cost, the ability does nothing. For example, the Insane Outcast has the ability, "Discard a card from your hand  Return Insane Outcast to the supply." You may play Insane Outcast and choose not to discard a card for this ability.
Focus.
The Elemental half-deck features the Focus keyword ability. Whenever you play a card with Focus, if you played another card of that card's aspect this turn or if you reveal a card of that aspect from your hand, you get the Focus effect described after the dash.

9 Playing Cards

10

Interacting with the Game Map

Your Presence and ability to control the Underdark is represented by your forces: the troops and spies you've placed on the game map.
Presence
Most actions you take on the game map require you to have Presence where you take the action. You have Presence...
· At any site where you have a spy, a troop, or a troop in a space adjacent to that site.
· At any troop space on a route if that space is adjacent to a site or space where you have a troop.
Troop Spaces

Sites
A site has multiple troop spaces grouped together within a single, larger box. Sites may also include the following:
1. Name. The name of the site.
2. VP Value. The VP value at the end of the game for the player who controls the site.
3. Site Control Marker. Taken by the player who controls the site.
4. Starting Site. Where a player may deploy his or her first troop of the game. They can be recognised by their black color.

MENZO trol

N

Troop spaces are the only spaces on the game map

1

that may contain troop pieces.

A troop space.

A white troop space. 3

BERRANZA
t+otalVcoPn

2 A starting site.

Control
You control a site when there are more troops of your color there than troops of any other single color.

White Troop Spaces
White troops are enemy troops that represent various denizens of the Underdark unaligned with the drow houses. These troops take no actions; they serve only to impede your conquest of the Underdark. Once a white troop is removed from the game map, its troop space becomes available for player troop placement.

Example: The red player has 2 troops at Araumycos, black has 1, and there is 1 white troop.
The red player controls the site.

You lose control of a site when the number of your troops there becomes tied with or surpassed by another color.
Total Control
You have total control of a site if all its troop spaces are filled only with your troops and no enemy spies are present.
Site Control Marker
A site control marker is a marker you put in front of you to show that you control a site. When you take control of a site that has a control marker, take that marker from the game map or from the site's previous controller and place it in front of you. If control of the site becomes tied, return that site's control marker to the game map.
Once on each of your turns, for each site control marker you have, you get an effect that depends on your degree of control over the site (control or total control). Flip the marker to the appropriate side. You get the indicated effect starting immediately on the turn you take the marker.
Routes
A route is a path between two sites that contains one or more troop spaces.

Actions
You may always take certain actions during step 1 of your turn by expending resources (see "Your Turn" on page 8). You might also take additional actions during your turn by playing cards.
Key Terms and Phrases
Some rules and cards use the following terms and phrases:
· Presence. Most actions you take on the game map require you to have Presence where you take the action. See "Presence" on page 10.
· Enemy. Cards and rules that refer to enemy troops include both white troops and other players' troops.
· Anywhere on the board. Whenever this phrase appears, it means you don't need Presence where you're told to take the action.

Assassinate a Troop

"Before this candle burns out, I shall bring a new skull to grace your hall, master."

--Zakeel, drow assassin

You may assassinate a troop only where you have Presence. To assassinate a troop, take it from a troop space and place it in the trophy hall on your playmat. You can't assassinate your own troops.

During step 1 of your turn, you may expend 3 Power

(

) from your resource pool to assassinate a

troop.

A route.

The trophy hall.

1 1 Ac tions

Deploy a Troop

Move a Troop

"The drow houses have eyes everywhere. You may think that you are alone in the Underdark, but believe me, they're watching you."
--Bruenor Battlehammer

You may move a troop only from a space where you have Presence. To move a troop, move it to an empty troop space anywhere on the board (even if you don't have Presence there).

You may deploy a troop only where you have Presence. To deploy a troop, take one from your barracks and place it on an empty troop space. Though unlikely, if you have no troops on the game map, you may deploy anywhere on the board in an empty troop space.
Each time you take this action while you have no troops remaining in your barracks, gain 1 VP instead.
During step 1 of your turn, you may expend 1 Power ( ) from your resource pool to deploy a troop.
Devour a Card
To devour a card, put it in the space on the game board marked for devoured cards. Devoured cards are no longer part of the game.
If you devour a card in the market, replace it with the top card of the market deck.

Place a Spy
"Many a drow house has fallen to a well placed spy."
--Shaleel, priestess of Lolth
To place a spy, put it on any site that doesn't already contain one of your spies. Place it near the name of the site - not on one of the troop spaces. You don't need to have Presence at a site to place a spy there. Any number of players can have spies at a single site.
If you take this action while all your spies are already placed, you may either do nothing or first return one of your spies and then place it.

12

Draw a Card
To draw a card, put the top card of your deck in your hand.
Whenever you need to draw a card but there are none left, shuffle your discard pile to re-form your deck.

Promote a Card
"An inner circle of a drow house is a powerful consortium of the most ambitious schemers, vicious backstabbers, and ruthless cutthroats you could imagine."
--Tam Zawad, Harper spymaster
To promote a card to your inner circle, put the card face up on your inner-circle board. Promoted cards are no longer part of your deck; you won't shuffle them back into it.
At the end of the game, you score victory points for cards in your inner circle equal to their inner-circle VP values.

Return a Troop or Spy

"You must deal with every transgression harshly. If you give just one inch of your neck, you'll lose your head."

--Jhael'Dara, drow weapons master

The Masters of Sorcere have been promoted to the Inner Circle.
Recruit a Card
To recruit a card, take it from the game board and put it in your discard pile. Then, if you recruited a card from the market, replace it with the top card of the market deck.
During step 1 of your turn, you may expend Influence from your resource pool to recruit a House Guard, a Priestess of Lolth, or a card from the market. Expend an amount of Influence ( ) equal to the card's cost.
If the supply of House Guards, Priestesses of Lolth, or Insane Outcasts runs out, the game continues, but you'll no longer be able to recruit one of those cards. If multiple Insane Outcasts are recruited and would run out, they are recruited in clockwise order starting with the player whose turn it is.

You may return an enemy troop or spy only from where you have Presence. To return an enemy troop or spy, return it from a troop space or site to its owner's barracks.

To return one of your troops or spies, return it from a troop space or site anywhere on the board to your barracks.

You may return only forces belonging to a player.

During step 1 of your turn, you may expend 3 Power

(

) from your resource pool to return an

enemy spy.

The red player wants to secure their position in The Phaerlin. They can expend 3 Power to return the blue player's spy back to their barracks. This will give the red player Total Control.

Aerisi Kalinoth waits in the market for a player with enough Influence to recruit her.

1 3 Ac tions

Supplant a Troop
"Why resort to something crude like murder when you can control minds?"
--Kimmuriel Oblodra
You may supplant a troop only where you have Presence. To supplant a troop, assassinate that troop and then deploy one of your troops in the newly vacated space. (See "Assassinate a Troop" and "Deploy a Troop," above.)
You may supplant only enemy troops.

Ending the Game
The end of the game triggers when one of the following occurs:
· A player deploys his or her last remaining troop. · When the market deck is empty. When the end of the game triggers, play proceeds until the end of the round, at which point the game ends.
Final Scoring

At the end of the game, use the scorepads to tally final VP scores. Each player scores VP as follows:

The black player has played a card that allows them to supplant a troop.
First they Assassinate the red troop.

· The VP value of each site you control.
· 2 VP for each site under your total control.
· 1 VP for each troop in your trophy hall.
· The deck VP value for each card in your deck, hand, and discard pile.
· The inner-circle VP value for each card in your inner circle.
· VP tokens gained during the game. The player with the most VP at the end of the game wins. If there's a tie for most, the tied players each win.

Then they Deploy one of their own troops into the newly vacated troop space.

14

Appendix: Underdark Sites
The Underdark is a subterranean realm of caverns and tunnels that span the entire world. It contains a vast array of strange and mysterious places, and this appendix gives brief descriptions of those featured in this game.

Araumycos
Giant Fungus
A fungal growth the size of a kingdom, Araumycos is a single living creature of enormous size. It occupies the area beneath the High Forest and extends deep into the earth. Araumycos is thought to be the oldest living creature on Faerűn.
Pronunciation: oh-reh-MY-kos

Blingdenstone
Deep Gnome Settlement
About a century ago, several thousand svirfneblin (deep gnomes) called Blingdenstone home. This peaceful existence was shattered when drow came in force to enslave them. In recent years, the svirfneblin have returned to reclaim their land. As the drow know Blingdenstone's location, it's doubtful the settlement will return to its former greatness and wealth.
Pronunciation: BLING-den-stone

Buiyrandyn
Ruined Drow Settlement
Buiyrandyn was a tiny drow settlement beneath the northern Sword Mountains. The struggling drow enclave was destroyed by illithids and is now the lair of a small clan of hook horrors.
Pronunciation: BWEER-ran-din

Chasmleap Bridge
Feat of Dwarven Engineering
This railless, smooth stone arch is over a thousand paces in length, but only six paces wide. It spans The Long Chasm, a great gorge in the Northdark. The Chasmleap Bridge is smooth to the touch, so cunningly finished that it appears to be fashioned of a single, solid piece of stone. Here and there along its deck are carved old and intricate runes, their meaning unknown to the dwarves of today.

1 5 Appendix: Underdark Sites

Chaulssin
Ruined Drow Settlement
Below the northern tip of the Rauvin Mountains lies Chaulssin, a deserted ruin that overhangs a tremendous abyss through which cold wind perpetually screams. Chaulssin was once a drow city, but a clan of shadow dragons conquered the city and enslaved its inhabitants some fifteen hundred years ago.
Few of the Chaulssin descendents survive today, but a secret house of master drow assassins (the Jaezred Chaulssin) uses the place as its hidden stronghold.
Pronunciation: CHAWL-sin

Ch'chitl
Mind Flayer Kingdom
Once a reasonably civilized illithid settlement ruled by an elder concord after the death of its elder brain, Ch'Chitl is now a twisted realm abhorrent even to other mind flayers. In a magical calamity a century ago, three of the elders were combined into a hideous, mutated beast that became Ch'Chitl's new leader. The bodies died and atrophied, remaining attached to a pulsing mass of gray matter traced with sizzling lines of blue fire.
The illithids of the Ch'Chitl hivemind have become capable of extraordinary feats of psionic and magical power, but madness plagues the community. Other illithids will not go near Ch'Chitl for fear that the magical disease is spread through psychic contact.
Pronunciation: ch-CHIT-ill

16

Ched Nasad
Ruined Drow Settlement
Ched Nasad was razed by an army of duergar that destroyed the calcified webbing forming the structure of the city. Only the members of a handful of minor noble houses survived because their homes were located on the cavern walls and in side caverns, where they escaped the crush of the falling debris. During the next hundred years, many of Ched Nasad's structures remained in ruin, until a new ruling council led by House Teh'Kinrellz reestablished some semblance of civilization in the lower city. The council is abhorrent to the ruling priestesses of Menzoberranzan, however, because the males of house Teh'Kinrellz hold positions equal to or even higher than those of the females. In truth, these patriarchs are merely puppets under the absolute control of the Jaezred Chaulssin.
Pronunciation: CHED na-SAWED
Eryndlyn
Ruined Drow City
Eryndlyn was once a thriving drow city, but religious infighting and threats from without left it nearly abandoned. The city was destroyed over a century ago by a magical catastrophe, and since that time, earthquakes, explosions, and all manner of strange magical effects have been coming from what the duergar call the Spellcaves of Eryndlyn. The strange magic of the place has already tempted some to use it as a source of power, though few survive the attempt.
Pronunciation: air-IND-lin

Everfire
Volcanic Rift
Deep beneath the remnants of Sundabar is a volcanic rift known as the Everfire, a source of heat and mystical power for forging that the dwarves of Sundabar have zealously guarded for generations. The dwarves so loved the Everfire that they protected it rather than the surface city above in which many humans lived, allowing Sundabar to fall to siege and be cast to ruin. After the siege was lifted by others, the dwarves emerged to reclaim Sundabar, but now they use the city like a fort to protect their precious Everfire.
Gauntlgrym
Shield Dwarf Kingdom
This subterranean dwarven city has been the stuff of legend for centuries. Long lost to dwarves, it was recently rediscovered and is steadily growing into a true kingdom. The massive entrance to Gauntlgrym is sealed with wards against all but dwarves from the line of Delzoun.
Pronunciation: GAUNT-ul-grim
Gracklstugh
Duergar Stronghold
At first glance, the duergar city of Gracklstugh resembles a hellish foundry. The main cavern is dominated by colossal stalagmites that have been hollowed out and converted into great smelters. The city glows with firelight and the ruddy gleam of hot metal at all times, and the air is filled with hissing steam, reeking smoke, and the endless clanging of hammers. The folk of Gracklstugh practice many trades besides smithing, but metalworking is the heart of the city.
Pronunciation: GRAK-ul-stoog

1 7 Appendix: Underdark Sites

Halls of the Scoured Legion
Demon-infested Dwarven Ruin
After the dwarven kingdom of Ammarindar fell into darkness, demon overlords used its spacious halls to gather an army of orcs and demonborn tanarukks. Once connected to the World Above through the lower reaches of Hellgate Keep, Ammarindar was sealed off from the surface after a decade of infighting that followed the disappearance of the army's leader. The tanarukks of Ammarindar are led today by High Warchief Ghiirvox. They sometimes raid their neighbors and other times hire out as mercenaries.
Jhachalkhyn
Ruined Drow City
The city of Jhachalkhyn was all but destroyed by an attack from the drow city of Maeralyn. It thereafter fell under the control of the Jaezred Chaulssin and their shadow dragon patron.
Pronunciation: jah-CHALk-in

Kanaglym
Abandoned Dwarven City
Deep within this ruined city runs a black river thought to connect somehow to the River Styx in the outer planes. When Kanaglym's water supply ran dry, the dwarves built a deeper well and unknowningly struck the Waters of Forgetfulness. Those that were too stubborn to evacuate simply forgot where they lived and wandered off into the dark.
Pronunciation: KAN-ah-glim
The Labyrinth
Underdark Tunnel Complex
Southwest of the Darklake lies a vast region known as the Labyrinth. Its tangled tunnels are roamed by minotaurs and other worshipers of the demon lord Baphomet. The Labyrinth obstructs travel from Skullport to Gracklstugh, Menzoberranzan, and the rest of the Northdark. Merchants bound for Skullport, Gracklstugh, and other cities make use of a few of the more direct and well marked paths, but anyone straying from the known routes is likely to starve to death, hopelessly lost.

18

Menzoberranzan
Drow City
Menzoberranzan is the archetypal drow city, divided into a number of noble houses and ruled by priestesses of Lolth. Betrayal and assassination are a way of life here, and a cruel and suspicious nature is a sign of good breeding. The drow of Menzoberranzan are universally hated and feared, and they in turn regard their neighbors with condescension and hungry ambition.
Pronunciation: MEN-zoh buh-RAN-zan

Llacerellyn
Mind Flayer City
Little is known of this secretive hive of illithids. Their only contact has been with the serpentine yuan-ti of Ss'zuraass'nee, with whom they've honored a centuries-old alliance.
Pronunciation: la-SEER-uh-lin
Mantol-Derith
Clandestine Trade Hub
Mantol-Derith is a hidden cave complex where drow, duergar, svirfneblin, and surface folk meet to trade. It is a place where old racial hatreds are put aside in the name of commerce and profit. Few know Mantol-Derith's exact location, and its gates are well guarded.
Pronunciation: MAN-toll DARE-ith

The Phaerlin
Ancient Netherese Ruins
Beneath the mighty desert of Anauroch lie what most surface-dwellers call the Buried Realms, but which scholars call the Phaerlin. These caverns were for centuries the demesnes of the unspeakable phaerimm. Because the Buried Realms are situated below the ruins of ancient Netheril and its daughter states, they contain many Netherese treasures. The threat of the phaerimm, however, prevents most fortune-seekers from venturing into this portion of the Underdark, and very little is known of any particular sites or cities here.
Pronunciation: FAYR-lin
Ruins of Dekanter
Ancient Netherese Ruins
The mines of Dekanter, west of the great desert Anauroch in the foothills of the Greypeak Mountains, are ruins from the long-lost Empire of Netheril. They once served as a major source of iron for that empire, and later became a secure laboratory for magical experimentation. In the millennia since the fall of Netheril, the magic has faded from the mines, and they are now overrun by goblins.
Pronunciation: de-KANT-er

1 9 Appendix: Underdark Sites

Skullport
Waterdeep's Shadow City
The dark twin to Waterdeep's light soul, Skullport is a subterranean city connected to both Undermountain and a great river in the Underdark. Skullport is tolerated, barely, by the Lords of Waterdeep, because the madness and chaos it houses might otherwise rise to the surface and destroy the City of Splendors. Agents of Waterdeep monitor the city's buried twin and sometimes carry out missions here, but they generally refrain from acting unless Skullport's denizens plot against the city above.

Ss'zuraass'nee
Yuan-ti City
The City of Abominations lies in the depths of the northern Serpent Hills, about one-half mile below the surface. The serpentfolk have carved the city's walls to resemble the digestive tract of a massive snake.
This disturbing image is reinforced by the faint acidic tang that clings to the air, making breathing uncomfortable for creatures unused to this environment.
Pronunciation: szur-ASS-nee

20

Stoneshaft Clanhold
Dwarven Stronghold
The dwarves of Clan Stoneshaft have long been among the dwindling number of scattered dwarven clans who keep mostly to themselves. Many tunnels around the clanhold are abandoned, and outlying grottoes often must be secured against opportunists. A long tunnel connects their holdings to the surface fortress of Thronhold, which they also claim.
Tsenviilyq
Derro Town
This secret derro settlement lies in the Lowerdark beneath the border between the High Moor and the Serpent Hills. Derro traders from Tsenviilyq are frequent visitors to the yuan-ti city of Ss'zuraass'nee.
Pronunciation: sen-VEE-lihg

The Wormwrithings
Underdark Tunnel Complex
A large region of twisting tunnels near Blingdenstone, the Wormwrithings are said to be tunnels left behind by dozens of purple worms over many years. These tunnels are home to several large bands of kobolds, and they connect to the surface world somewhere in the vicinity of the source of the Goblintide River.
Yathchol
Chitine Settlement
Yathchol is home to the largest, most coherent collection of chitines, spider-like humanoids that are the remains of a drow experiment. It is a dark, dismal place where Lolth's terrible wrath rules in the form of the choldriths, the even more spider-like priests of the chitines. The chitines live from day to day with little plan or structure, but their numbers are slowly growing nevertheless.
Pronunciation: YATH-kohl

2 1 Appendix: Underdark Sites

Quick Reference
Presence
You have Presence...
· At any site where you have a spy, a troop, or a troop in a space adjacent to that site.
· At any troop space on a route if that space is adjacent to a site or space where you have a troop.
Card Special Abilities
Abilities with Costs (). You may pay the cost described on the left side of the arrow in order to get the effect described on the right side of the arrow. Paying the cost is optional; if you choose to play the card and not pay the cost, the ability does nothing, but you still follow the instructions of the card's other abilities.
Focus. Whenever you play a card with Focus, if you played another card of that card's aspect this turn or if you reveal a card of that aspect from your hand, you get the Focus effect described after the dash.
Actions
Assassinate a Troop. Take a troop from a space where you have Presence, and place it in your trophy hall.
Deploy a Troop. Take a troop from your supply and place it on an empty troop space where you have Presence. Each time you take this action while you have no troops remaining in your supply, gain 1 VP instead.
Devour a Card. Put the card in the space on the game board marked for devoured cards. If you devour a card in the market, replace it with the top card of the market deck.
Move a Troop. Move a troop from a space where you have Presence to an empty troop space anywhere on the board.

Place a Spy. Put a spy on a site (not a troop space) anywhere on the board that doesn't already contain one of your spies.
Promote a Card. Put the card face up on your innercircle board.
Recruit a Card. Take the card from the game board, and put it in your discard pile. Then, if you recruited a card from the market, replace it with the top card of the market deck.
Return a Troop or Spy. Return a troop or spy from where you have Presence to its owner's supply. White troops cannot be returned since they do not belong to any player.
Supplant a Troop. Assassinate a troop where you have Presence and then deploy one of your troops in the newly vacated space.
Control vs. Total Control
You control a site if there are more troops of your color at the site than troops of any other single color. You have total control of a site if all the site's troop spaces are filled only with your troops and no enemy spies are present.
Ending the Game
The end of the game triggers when one of the following occurs:
1. A player deploys his or her last remaining troop.
2. The market deck becomes empty. When the end of the game triggers, play proceeds until the end of the round, at which point the game ends.
Online FAQ
Got questions? Get answers from the online FAQ at www.GF9-DnD.com/Tyrants

22

